hello everyone hello everyone it's
Celina and I'm back we have a video and
if you were just thinking what on earth
was that
that is the notebook where I keep all my
video notes in and I got as a gift and
in all honesty I was planning on reading
it to somebody I don't like but then I
needed a notebook so now we're a team
but yeah they're from this weird book
today's video is hopefully going to be
quite helpful to everybody who's
starting University soon because I
decided to sit down and you know think
about the things that I wish I had known
when I started out as a freshman
Cambridge University so yeah I hope that
you guys will find this video helpful
but before we get into it I just quickly
wanted to introduce you to the sponsor
of today's video which is Skillshare
Skillshare is an online learning
community with over 25,000 courses so
you can learn pretty much anything on
there so if there's something that
you've always had on your list that you
wanted to learn but you just didn't
really know where to start learning it
skills rates probably the place to do it
personally I love Skillshare because it
helps me with my coding because I recent
starts to learn how to code and I still
need a lot of help with it and skill
shown is really great in helping me to
learn how to approach problems and just
also stay motivated because if some of
you who we've tried it know that when
there's one comma it just you know is
missing then he typing just doesn't work
and skills one is really great and you
know just helping you find these
mistakes and learning how to avoid them
in the future so I'm a huge fan of
Skillshare and if you guys want to try
it out you can have Premium Membership
which gives you access to all classes
for free for two months if you're one of
the first 500 people to use the link in
the infobox below
and after that Premium Membership is
less than ten dollars a month and it
gives you access to so much knowledge so
yeah I'd highly recommend trying it out
and you can get your first two months
for free and just see you still shares
the right thing for you the thing I was
probably dementia worried about when I
started University was making friends
and whether I would make any friends and
I actually later found out that my mom
was concerned about that as well because
I'm a very introverted and shy person so
it's really hard for me to make friends
and my mom actually told me after my
first term of university that she was
really happy that I made any friends
because she wasn't sure where I would
and I was just like thanks mom for
trusting me
but the thing is even I made friends and
I've made some amazing friends and if
somebody like me can make friends then
you can do okay don't worry about that
literally everybody makes friends at
university because surfing is when you
start University thousands of other
students are starting it as well and
there will be people who relate to you
and there are so many people who are all
looking for friends so don't worry you
will find a friend and if you're not a
conversation starter and you're a very
shine introverted person that's
absolutely fine I am too and guess what
I'm a friends okay even if it's just by
sitting next to them and lectures and
then they start talking to you or you
start talking to them it's absolutely
fine you don't need to worry just
because you're shy or introverted it
doesn't matter
there aren't enough extra words around
you so somebody will start talking to
you so don't worry everybody makes
friends literally everybody and I feel
like I just needed to hear that and you
know understand that it's true and you
can watch my vlogs and you will see that
you know I have some really really great
friends and I feel like everybody who
you know I've met even if I didn't
become a close friend affairs they all
have made some really good friendships
at Cambridge and that's because it just
works itself out I know it can be really
scary to leave all your high school
friends behind but it's fine
it's really fine because you will make
amazing friends in university there are
so many great people who are coming to
your University wherever you are and you
will find somebody who you can relate to
and who you want to talk to on the daily
next let's talk about finances because
that's a very very important topic and I
know that for a lot of people going to
university means that it's the first
time that they're ever managing your
expenses by themselves and it's really
important that you stay on top of that
so what I recommend doing is to make a
spreadsheet where you put down your
monthly budget and how that budget is
divided so how much of the budget are
you going to spend on food on going out
on extracurriculars on cloves or
whatever fairly really think about what
are the things that you spend money on
in a month write that down and write
down how much you can afford to spend on
these things in a month and then stick
to that plan and it's also really
important to keep that spreadsheet
updated so what I personally do is I
would pay everything by called because I
have an app and my
shows me where that money went to and
how much I spent on it and then it's
just so much easier to just copy and
paste it onto my spreadsheet but you
know you can always ask for a received
if you paying something by cash or you
can just quickly write it down in your
nose pad on your phone and it's really
super super easy and it doesn't take a
lot of time but you know it just gives
you an overview of what you're spending
your money on and then you know every
few days like this can be every five
days or something you just sit down and
put these numbers into your spreadsheet
it really doesn't take longer than ten
minutes but those 10 minutes are very
well invested and then just put some
conditional formatting on that
spreadsheet so that when you go over a
certain amount for some spending or your
entire spending then it just turns red
and that just tells you okay you can't
spend more on this department for this
month because you're over your budget
and I think that's just a really really
great way of giving yourself an overview
and also understanding where you might
spend too much money and that just
really helps you know see okay so what
am i doing well in what am I not doing
so well in if you guys want an example
spreadsheet with the conditional
formatting already on it I have one
named any of the works below and it's
basically just a blank version of what I
use for my own finances and personally I
find it really really useful and it has
also really helped me see where I just
spend too much money and it helped me
reduce that amount next look after your
mental health this is something that I
learned the hard way and that's why I'm
currently on an intermission so it Frank
from Cambridge for medical reasons but
in all honesty I feel like this could
have probably been avoided had I been
more aware of you know looking after my
mental health so what I recommend doing
is to check in with yourself every few
days like this can just be every three
days you know you just sit yourself down
for a little conversation with yourself
in your head for like five minutes
that's enough okay just ask yourself
okay how am i doing like how I'm
actually feeling about things you know
am i okay do I need some time off
journey to relax a little bit more am i
okay am i happy and you know if that's
kind of hard for you to do in your head
just set yourself a little alarm every
few days just write in a diary
okay just write a little bit about your
feelings how you're doing right now and
the great thing about having a diary is
you can flip back and see how you felt
over the past few weeks and if you've
been feeling really low for weeks and
weeks then just talk to you tutor about
it and
for help and that's one of the most
important lessons that I can give to
anybody who starting University if you
need help with anything whether it's
academic or you meant to help or your
physical health really anything you need
to ask for it
okay there's so much help available at
university but unlike in high school
people I'm not gonna be looking out for
you all the time being like do you need
help okay that may happen that's great
but very often you're gonna have to be
the person to ask for help and then you
will be given help okay so don't worry
about that part but you need to say and
not okay because in university people
have hundreds and hundreds of students
and so they can't look out for every
single one of them so if there's
something about you that is not okay
just tell them and then they know to
look out for it and then they can start
telling you how they can help you so if
there's anything wrong please don't be
afraid to ask it's so important to ask
for help
and there's really no shame in doing it
whatever it is about the next point is
more academic and it's about planning
how you're going to study and manage
your time don't roll up to university
not having given this a single thought
that is not a great plan okay think
about this really think about it how are
you going to take your notes in lectures
I knew for example gonna use pen and
paper are you gonna take notes on a
tablet are you gonna take your notes on
a laptop what do you need to bring to
the faculty everyday how are you
planning to make your study notes over
the term are you gonna use flashcards
are you gonna write it on blank paper
are you gonna make digital notes
whatever it is but have a solid plan in
place because once your course starts
you will be very very busy very very
quickly and you won't be having time to
think about okay so how am I gonna get
like study you need to have figured that
one out before so really give this a lot
of fun and you know you can try out a
few methods at home and you can see okay
I really like running on a tablet or
maybe I prefer a pen paper whatever it
is but really think about this and also
think about how you're gonna schedule
your time are you going to use a digital
planner are you gonna use a paper
planner whatever it is but make sure
that you have it ready once you go to
university and when they give you any
schedules ahead of time
like your lecture schedules or whatever
already put them in your calendar for
the entire term you're not gonna regret
this because once you start your term
you're gonna be so busy and there is
this temptation to just you know neglect
your calendar and that's a very very bad
idea because then you will start losing
track of things so really important to
have a great planning system in place so
that your time management won't suffer
once it gets really busy in university
did you guys want to know how I manage
my time in Cambridge I made a video on
it and you can find it linked in the
infobox below for you guys
and lastly read up on the different
things that University has to offer so
read up on your course structure on
extra curricular offerings on support
systems any health requirements really
anything usually before you start
university you university will send you
a package with a lot of information it's
usually a few hundred pages and I know
it's tempting just be like oh it's gonna
be fine I don't need to read this but
reading this will help you a lot I'd
recommend taking out free days from your
summer break and going over all of these
things and then taking notes on it so
you can treat it a little bit like a
homework reading or whatever so what I
personally did is I made a really long
note in my notes pad which I can access
from all my devices and I just wrote
down okay so these are some things about
help at Cambridge these are some things
about living in my college etc just some
really important phone numbers people I
can contact things that I can do etc and
that was just really really helpful and
it came in handy so many times because
when a point comes where you need any of
these things and you don't even know
that they exist that's not great so
doing this over three days during your
holiday is a really really great
investment of your time then you will
never have to look at all these long
info pamphlets again so yeah that's my
advice to people who are starting
University in the fall and I hope that
some of these things will help you guys
those are honestly just things that I
wish I had known when I started out as a
freshman at Cambridge so I hope that
they can help some of you guys and if
you guys on the lens I mean you
you can use the link in the infobox
below to get two months of free premium
membership with Skillshare I hope you
guys enjoyed this video thank you so
much for watching have a nice day bye